# Depression-detector

# Abstract
The past decade has witnessed rapid development in microblogging applications and
the huge amount of information generated by them. This has led to a considerable amount of
research focused on sentiment analysis applications. However, much of the research up to
now do not concern with mental illness detection since it can be a complex task. The main
aim of this study was to explore different approaches of machine learning to detect
depression through Arabic tweets. Part of the aim of this research was to develop a website
for depression detection. We have experimented with two approaches in this study:
traditional machine learning and deep learning. There are six classifiers used in this study.
We have built our dataset of 1058 tweets using Twitter API. The dataset was classified into
depressed and not depressed tweets with the help of psychologists. We have experimented
three well-known machine learning classifiers, namely support vector machine (SVM) and
the variations of Naïve Bayes (NB), i.e. Bernoulli Naïve Bayes (BNB) and complement
Naïve Bayes (CNB). For the feature extraction, we have used count vector, term frequencyinverse document frequency (TF-IDF), and N-gram (i.e. bigram, trigram). For the deep
learning approach, we have experimented with two main classifiers, namely convolutional
neural network (CNN) and recurrent neural network (RNN). The RNN algorithms are long
short-term memory (LSTM) and bidirectional long short-term memory (BiLSTM). We have
experimented with an ensemble model, combining the CNN and LSTM models. Since the
neural networks cannot deal with tweets directly, we used one of the word embedding
techniques called Word2vec for the vector representation. The results showed that BNB is
the best out of the seven classifiers that we have experimented with, with an accuracy of
89.15%. Thus, BNB has been integrated into our depression detection website.

# Functional requirements
Functional requirements provide a general idea about what the system should be able to
do. The following describes the system's behavior from input to get the result:
1. The user writes the Twitter account username.
2. The user asks the system to detect whether he is depressed or not.
3. The system fetches all tweets for the given username.
4. The tweets will be analyzed based on our chosen model.
5. The system displays the result (the depression percentage).
